A live demo is here:
http://moygen.rf.gd/graph2/index.html

This is a javascript and php program for four coloring any graph. Although it would be difficult to test on every possible graph, it has solved hundreds of 300 or fewer vertices. I use delaunay triangulation to generate random graphs, and these graphs may be modified, either with or without delaunay triangulation. The php is used for saving and loading graphs to and from a text file. To use these functions, set the usePHP variable in index.html to true, and chmod the data folder to 777.

The best part of this program, I think, is watching the animation of the algorithm solving the graph at a human observable pace. The algorithm sorts the vertices by number of neighbors and uses high priority colors on vertices of high degree of connectivity, which get colored first, and low priority colors onvertices of low degree of connectivity, which get colored last. After the algorithm has gone through the whole graph this way, it then goes back to the vertices for which no color was available. It searches the neighbors of the uncolored vertex for the neighbors with the fewest fellows of their own color. If there are more than one neighbors with only one fellow of the same color, the algorithm chooses the neighbor of the highest priority color. The algorithm assigns the color of that neighbor to the uncolored vertex and then repeats the same process for that neighbor, excluding the vertex which took its color. When the algorithm goes into a loop of following the same circuit over and over, the algorithm kicks itself out of the loop with a random choice of either the second or third highest priority color for assigning to the


